src/docs/asciidoc/content.adoc, before:

== Multi-repo vs Monorepo

Gradle has tended to support two main patterns for software composition

== Multi-repo

* Software components kept in separate VCS repositories
* Each component built and published separately
* Integration of components is done via binary dependencies.

=== Multi-repo (cont.)

* In Gradle, this usually shows up as multiple `settings.gradle` files

```groovy
rootProject.name = "myApp"
include 'common', 'util', 'app'
```

* Each repository could be a single project or a multi-project build.
* Dependencies between repositories are through Group, Artifact, Version (`GAV`) coordinates

```groovy
dependencies {
    compile 'com.example:someModule:1.0.0'
}
```

=== Multi-repo Advantages

* Projects are kept separated by repository boundaries
* Projects can have very different release processes/schedules
* Developers can checkout/work on a subset of the overall project

=== Multi-repo Disadvantages

* Binary integration can be difficult to maintain (mistakes happen)
* Usually a local repository is used by developers to integrate on their machine
* Trying to create a monolithic build from independent pieces can lead to different builds between CI and developers

== Monorepo

* Multiple software components kept in a single VCS repository
* Typically, the build is configured as one multi-project build
* Integration of components via project dependencies.

=== Monorepo (cont.)

* In Gradle, this usually shows up as a single `settings.gradle` in the root of the repository.

```groovy
rootProject.name = "allMyProjects"
include 'common', 'util', 'app'
include 'someModule'
... snip 100 lines ...
include 'lib100', 'app2'
```

* Dependencies between repositories are through Gradle project dependencies

```groovy
dependencies {
    compile project(":someModule")
}
```

=== Monorepo Advantages

* All/most dependencies are kept in one place and built from source
* Single-entry point for building everything
* No question if you're building with the "correct" version

=== Monorepo Disadvantages

* Build/IDE performance can suffer if you do not use partial checkouts
* Organization/teams may be structured in a way that makes monorepo harder to use
* Important to maintain discipline to keep projects separated/focused
* A single developer may not be able to build everything

== Composite Build

Breaks down differences between external dependencies and project dependencies to allow you to _compose_ your software components in the way you need.

[%notitle]
[data-background="images/tf-g1.jpg"]
=== Composite Build Assemble!

=== Gradle Jargon

* A Gradle project produces zero or more *components* (e.g., a Java project produces a jar)
* A Gradle *build* is made up of one or more *projects*.
* A Gradle *composite* build is made up of one or more *builds*.
* We call a build in a composite a *participant*.

=== Composite Build

* Composite build leverages the existing https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_management.html#module_to_project_substitution[dependency substitution support] added in https://docs.gradle.org/2.5/release-notes.html[2.5].
* Our goal is to allow multiple discrete Gradle builds to be combined in a way to support both the monorepo and multi-repo use cases.
* Dependencies are expressed with `GAV` coordinates and Gradle substitutes project dependencies when appropriate
* Cross-participant tasks are wired together as if everything was a single multi-project build
* Honorable mention: https://github.com/prezi/pride[Prezi Pride] is similar - replaces external dependencies with project dependencies

=== Differences from a multi-project builds

* Participants can use different Gradle versions.
* All participants are configured separately.
   - `allprojects` and `subprojects` do not work across participants.
   - Dependencies between participants use external `GAV` coordinates.

=== Differences from a multi-project builds (cont.)

* `buildscript` dependencies can come from another participant.
* No built-in way to define composites yet (e.g., through `settings.gradle`)
   - Demo here uses an experimental branch that demonstrates how this could be accomplished.
   - Tooling API/programmatic interface is usable today (e.g., used by Buildship 2.0).

=== Composite Advantages

* Like a multi-repo, developers can check out the pieces they want to work on
* Like a monorepo, developers can be sure that what they're working on is all building together as a single unit
* Like a multi-repo, projects can be separated/clustered together to match the organization
* Like a monorepo, building everything together "looks" the same everywhere (CI and developer)

=== Composite Disadvantages

* Needs more tooling support (from Eclipse and IDEA) to work with auto-import
   - Generating metadata files works
* Dependency substitution is limited 
   - Only works with Java projects
   - Only works when all participants have the same version of Gradle
* Composite builds mostly limited to the Tooling API/programmatic interface
* No composite-of-composite support yet

== Demo (Multi-repo => Monolith)

Separate builds brought together as a monolithic build.

=== Demo (Multi-repo => Monolith)

screencast:monolith1[]

=== Demo (Multi-repo => Monolith)

screencast:monolith2[]

== Demo (Plugin development)

Separate plugin project substituted when in a composite with a build that uses it.

=== Demo (Plugin development)

screencast:plugin1[]

=== Demo (Plugin development)

screencast:plugin2[]

Commit message:

Add second screencast for monolith2

src/docs/asciidoc/content.adoc, after:

== Multi-repo vs Monorepo

Gradle has tended to support two main patterns for software composition

== Multi-repo

* Software components kept in separate VCS repositories
* Each component built and published separately
* Integration of components is done via binary dependencies.

=== Multi-repo (cont.)

* In Gradle, this usually shows up as multiple `settings.gradle` files

```groovy
rootProject.name = "myApp"
include 'common', 'util', 'app'
```

* Each repository could be a single project or a multi-project build.
* Dependencies between repositories are through Group, Artifact, Version (`GAV`) coordinates

```groovy
dependencies {
    compile 'com.example:someModule:1.0.0'
}
```

=== Multi-repo Advantages

* Projects are kept separated by repository boundaries
* Projects can have very different release processes/schedules
* Developers can checkout/work on a subset of the overall project

=== Multi-repo Disadvantages

* Binary integration can be difficult to maintain (mistakes happen)
* Usually a local repository is used by developers to integrate on their machine
* Trying to create a monolithic build from independent pieces can lead to different builds between CI and developers

== Monorepo

* Multiple software components kept in a single VCS repository
* Typically, the build is configured as one multi-project build
* Integration of components via project dependencies.

=== Monorepo (cont.)

* In Gradle, this usually shows up as a single `settings.gradle` in the root of the repository.

```groovy
rootProject.name = "allMyProjects"
include 'common', 'util', 'app'
include 'someModule'
... snip 100 lines ...
include 'lib100', 'app2'
```

* Dependencies between repositories are through Gradle project dependencies

```groovy
dependencies {
    compile project(":someModule")
}
```

=== Monorepo Advantages

* All/most dependencies are kept in one place and built from source
* Single-entry point for building everything
* No question if you're building with the "correct" version

=== Monorepo Disadvantages

* Build/IDE performance can suffer if you do not use partial checkouts
* Organization/teams may be structured in a way that makes monorepo harder to use
* Important to maintain discipline to keep projects separated/focused
* A single developer may not be able to build everything

== Composite Build

Breaks down differences between external dependencies and project dependencies to allow you to _compose_ your software components in the way you need.

[%notitle]
[data-background="images/tf-g1.jpg"]
=== Composite Build Assemble!

=== Gradle Jargon

* A Gradle project produces zero or more *components* (e.g., a Java project produces a jar)
* A Gradle *build* is made up of one or more *projects*.
* A Gradle *composite* build is made up of one or more *builds*.
* We call a build in a composite a *participant*.

=== Composite Build

* Composite build leverages the existing https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_management.html#module_to_project_substitution[dependency substitution support] added in https://docs.gradle.org/2.5/release-notes.html[2.5].
* Our goal is to allow multiple discrete Gradle builds to be combined in a way to support both the monorepo and multi-repo use cases.
* Dependencies are expressed with `GAV` coordinates and Gradle substitutes project dependencies when appropriate
* Cross-participant tasks are wired together as if everything was a single multi-project build
* Honorable mention: https://github.com/prezi/pride[Prezi Pride] is similar - replaces external dependencies with project dependencies

=== Differences from a multi-project builds

* Participants can use different Gradle versions.
* All participants are configured separately.
   - `allprojects` and `subprojects` do not work across participants.
   - Dependencies between participants use external `GAV` coordinates.

=== Differences from a multi-project builds (cont.)

* `buildscript` dependencies can come from another participant.
* No built-in way to define composites yet (e.g., through `settings.gradle`)
   - Demo here uses an experimental branch that demonstrates how this could be accomplished.
   - Tooling API/programmatic interface is usable today (e.g., used by Buildship 2.0).

=== Composite Advantages

* Like a multi-repo, developers can check out the pieces they want to work on
* Like a monorepo, developers can be sure that what they're working on is all building together as a single unit
* Like a multi-repo, projects can be separated/clustered together to match the organization
* Like a monorepo, building everything together "looks" the same everywhere (CI and developer)

=== Composite Disadvantages

* Needs more tooling support (from Eclipse and IDEA) to work with auto-import
   - Generating metadata files works
* Dependency substitution is limited 
   - Only works with Java projects
   - Only works when all participants have the same version of Gradle
* Composite builds mostly limited to the Tooling API/programmatic interface
* No composite-of-composite support yet

== Demo (Multi-repo => Monolith)

Separate builds brought together as a monolithic build.

=== Demo (Old way with multiple builds)

screencast:monolith1[]

=== Demo (New way with composite build)

screencast:monolith2[]

=== Demo (New way with third party)

screencast:monolith3[]

== Demo (Plugin development)

Separate plugin project substituted when in a composite with a build that uses it.

=== Demo (Plugin development)

screencast:plugin1[]

=== Demo (Plugin development)

screencast:plugin2[]
